Job Description:

Intel is shaping the future of technology to help create a better future for the entire world. Our work in pushing forward fields like AI, analytics, and cloud-to-edge technology is at the heart of countless innovations. With a career at Intel, you'll have the opportunity to use technology to power major breakthroughs and create enhancements that improve our everyday quality of life. Join us and help make the future more wonderful for everyone.

Life at Intel

The Ai Algorithm Engineer

Designs and builds generative AI agents and AI platforms leveraging both local and cloud-based large language models (LLMs). Develops AI-powered products and solutions that enable intelligent reasoning, automation, and human-AI interaction for real-world use cases.
Builds and integrates GenAI systems using local LLMs and cloud-hosted LLM services, focusing on agent orchestration, tool usage, retrieval-augmented workflows, and system-level optimization. Collaborates closely with users and stakeholders to define requirements and deliver impactful AI solutions.
Translates AI agent logic, LLM workflows, and data pipelines into production-quality software using modern programming practices. Responsible for end-to-end development, including implementation, testing, debugging, documentation, and deployment of AI services, tools, and platforms.

Qualifications

Minimum qualifications are required to be initially considered for this position. Preferred qualifications are in addition to the minimum requirements and are considered a plus factor in identifying top candidates.

You must possess the minimum qualifications to be initially considered for this position. Preferred qualifications are in addition to the minimum requirements and are considered a plus factor in identifying top candidates.

Minimum Qualifications

Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Electrical/Computer Engineering, or a related field.
3+ months experience with C++
3+ months experience with Python.

Preferred Qualifications

Experience with frameworks and ecosystems such as LangChain, LlamaIndex, AutoGen, Hugging Face, and related APIs.
Knowledge of Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), vector databases (e.g., FAISS, Chroma), and embedding-based search.
Experience with prompt engineering and/or UX/UI considerations to improve human-AI interaction.
Familiarity with deploying, scaling, and optimizing AI agent platforms across local and cloud environments.
Familiarity with building simple AI agents, chatbots, or LLM-based applications via academic or personal projects.
Interest in AI agents, GenAI platforms, and real-world AI applications.
Strong problem-solving skills and willingness to learn new technologies.
Good communication skills and ability to work in a team environment.

Qualification requirements may be met through academic coursework, community projects, or on-the-job experience.

Benefits At Intel

Our total rewards package goes above and beyond just a paycheck. Whether you're looking to build your career, improve your health, or protect your wealth, we offer generous benefits to help you achieve your goals. Go to Intel Benefits | Intel Careers for details of benefits available to you. Intel reserves the right to modify, change or discontinue benefit plans at any time in its sole discretion.

Job Type

College Grad

Shift

Shift 1 (United States of America)

Primary Location:

US, California, Santa Clara

Additional Locations:

US, California, Folsom, US, Oregon, Hillsboro

Business Group

Intel makes possible the most amazing experiences of the future. You may know us for our processors. But we do so much more. Intel invents at the boundaries of technology to make amazing experiences possible for business and society, and for every person on Earth. Harnessing the capability of the cloud, the ubiquity of the Internet of Things, the latest advances in memory and programmable solutions, and the promise of always-on 5G connectivity, Intel is disrupting industries and solving global challenges. Leading on policy, diversity, inclusion, education and sustainability, we create value for our stockholders, customers, and society.

Posting Statement

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, religious creed, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, physical or mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, military and veteran status, marital status, pregnancy, gender, gender expression, gender identity, sexual orientation, or any other characteristic protected by local law, regulation, or ordinance.

Position of Trust

N/A

Benefits

We offer a total compensation package that ranks among the best in the industry. It consists of competitive pay, stock bonuses, and benefit programs which include health, retirement, and vacation. Find out more about the benefits of working at Intel.

Annual Salary Range for jobs which could be performed in the US: $118,850.00 - 188,340.00 USD

The range displayed on this job posting reflects the minimum and maximum target compensation for the position across all US locations. Within the range, individual pay is determined by work location and additional factors, including job-related skills, experience, and relevant education or training. Your recruiter can share more about the specific compensation range for your preferred location during the hiring process.

Work Model for this Role

This role will be eligible for our hybrid work model which allows employees to split their time between working on-site at their assigned Intel site and off-site. * Job posting details (such as work model, location or time type) are subject to change.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: Intel is committed to Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) compliance and ethical hiring practices. We do not charge any fees during our hiring process. Candidates should never be required to pay recruitment fees, medical examination fees, or any other charges as a condition of employment. If you are asked to pay any fees during our hiring process, please report this immediately to your recruiter.